III.
THE BLACK SPOT About noon I stopped at the captain's door
at some cooling drinks and medicines. He was lying very much as we had left him, only a little
higher, and he seemed both weak and excited. "'Jim,' he said,
"'you're the only one here that's worth anything, and you know I've always been good to you.
Never a month but I've given you a silver fourpenny for yourself, and now you see, mate,
I'm pretty low and deserted by all. And, Jim, you'll bring me one noggin of rum now, won't you, matey?'
"'The doctor,' I began, but he broke in cursing the doctor in a feeble voice but heartily.
"'Doctors is all swabs,' he said. "'And that doctor there, why,
what do he know about seafarin men? I've been in places hot as pitch,
and mates droppin round with yellowjack, and the blessed land a-heavin' like the sea with earthquakes.
What did the doctor know of lands like that? And I lived on rum, I tell you.
It's been meat and drink and man and wife to me, and if I'm not to have my rum now,
I'm a poor old hulk on a lee shore, my blood'll be on you, Jim, and that doctor swab.'
And he ran on again for a while with curses.
"'Look, Jim, how my fingers fidges,' he continued in the pleading tone.
"'I can't keep him still, not I. I haven't had a drop this blessed day.
That doctor's a fool, I tell you. If I don't have a drain of rum, Jim, I'll have the horrors.
"'I've seen some on him already. I've seen old Flint in the corner there behind you.
His plain is print, I've seen him, and if I get the horrors, I'm a man that has lived rough,
and I'll raise cane. Your doctor himself said one glass wouldn't hurt me.
I'll give you a golden guinea for a noggin, Jim.'
He was growing more and more excited, and this alarmed me,
for my father, who was very low that day and needed quiet. Besides, I was reassured by the
doctor's words, now quoted to me, and rather offended by the offer of a bribe.
"'I want none of your money,' said I, "'but what you owe my father. I'll get you one glass and no
more.' When I brought it to him, he seized it greedily and drank it out. "'I, I,' said he,
"'that's some better, sure enough.' And now, Meady, did that doctor say how long I was to lie here in
this old berth? "'A week at least,' said I. "'Thunder!' he cried. "'A week? I can't do that.
They'd have the black spot on me by then. The Lubbers is going about to get the wind of me
this blessed moment. Lubbers as couldn't keep what they got, and want to nail what is in others.
Is that seemingly behaviour now I want to know? But I am a saving soul. I never wasted good money
nor lost it neither, and I'll trick them again. I'm not afraid on them. I'll shake out another
reef, Meady, and dattle them again.' As he was thus speaking, he had risen from bed with great
difficulty, holding to my shoulder with a grip that almost made me cry out, and moving his legs
like so much dead weight. His words, spirited as they were in meaning, contrasted sadly with
the weakness of the voice in which they were uttered. He paused when he had got into a sitting
position on the edge. "'The doctor's done me,' he murmured. "'My ears is singing. Lay me back.'
Before I could do much to help him, he had fallen back again to his former place,
where he lay for a while silent. "'Jim,' he said at length,
"'You saw that sea-faring man today.' "'Black dog?' I asked.
"'Ah, black dog,' says he. "'He's a badden, but there's worse that put him on.
Now, if I can't get away no how, and he tipped me the black spot, mind you,
it's my old sea-chest thereafter. You get on a horse. You can, can't you?
Well, then, you get on a horse, and go to—well, yes, I will—to that eternal doctor swab,
and tell him to pipe all hands, magistrates and sitch, and he'll lay him aboard at the Admiral
Benbow, all old Flint's crew, man and boy, all on him that's left. I was first mate, I was. Old
Flint's first mate, and I'm the only one as knows the place. He gave it me at Savannah,
when he lay a-dying, like as if I was to now, you see. But you won't peach unless they get the black
spot on me, or unless you see that black dog again, or a seafairman with one leg. Jim, him above all.'
"'But what is the black spot, Captain?' I asked. "'That's a summons mate. I'll tell you if they get
that. But you keep your weather-eye open, Jim, and I'll share with you equals, upon my honour.'
"'He wandered a little longer, his voice growing weaker. But soon after I had given him his medicine,
which he took like a child, with the remark, If ever a seaman wanted drugs, it's me. He fell
at last into a heavy, swoon-like sleep, in which I left him. What I should have done had all gone
well, I do not know. Probably I should have told the whole story to the doctor, for I was in mortal
fear lest the Captain should repent of his confessions and make an end of me. But as things
fill out, my poor father died quite suddenly that evening, which put all other matters on one side.
Our natural distress, the visits of the neighbours, the arranging of the funeral,
and all the work of the inn to be carried on in the meanwhile, kept me so busy that I had
scarcely time to think of the Captain, far less to be afraid of him.
On the night before the funeral he was as drunk as ever, and it was shocking in that house of
mourning to hear him singing away at his ugly old sea-song. But weak as he was, we were all in the
fear of death for him, and the doctor was suddenly taken up with a case many miles away and was never
near the house after my father's death. I have said the Captain was weak, and indeed he seemed
rather to grow weaker than regain his strength. He clambered up and down stairs, and went from the
parlour to the bar and back again, and sometimes put his nose out of doors to smell the sea,
holding on to the walls as he went for support and breathing hard and fast like a man on a steep
mountain. He never particularly addressed me, and it is my belief he had as good as forgotten his
confidences. But his temper was more flighty and allowing for his bodily weakness more violent than
ever. He had an alarming way now when he was drunk of drawing his cutlass and laying it bare before
him on the table. But with all that, he minded people less and seemed shut up in his own thoughts
and rather wandering. Once, for instance, to our extreme wonder, he piped up to a different air,
kind of country love song that he must have learned in his youth before he had begun to follow the sea.
So things passed until the day after the funeral, and about three o'clock of a bitter, foggy,
frosty afternoon I was standing at the door for a moment, full of sad thoughts about my father,
when I saw someone drawing slowly near along the road. He was plainly blind, for he tapped before
him with a stick and wore a great green shade over his eyes and nose, and he was hunched as if with
age or weakness, and wore a huge old tattered sea cloak with a hood that made him appear
positively deformed. I never saw in my life a more dreadful looking figure. He stopped a little from
the inn and, raising his voice in an odd sing song, addressed the air in front of him.
Will any kind friend inform a poor blind man who has lost the precious sight of his eyes and the
defense of his native country, England, and God bless King George, where or in what part
of this country he may now be? You are at the Admiral Benbow, Blackhill Cove, my good man,
said I. I hear a voice, said he, a young voice. Will you give me your hand, my kind young friend,
and lead me in? I held out my hand, and the horrible soft-spoken eyeless creature gripped
it in a moment like a vice. I was so startled that I struggled to withdraw, but the blind man
pulled me close up to him with a single action of his arm. Now, boy, he said, take me in to the
captain. Sir, said I. Upon my word, I dare not. Oh, he sneered, that's it. Take me in straight,
or I'll break your arm. And he gave it as he spoke a wrench that made me cry out. Sir, said I. It is
for yourself, I mean. The captain is not what he used to be. He sits with the drawn cutlass,
another gentleman. Come now, march, interrupted he, and I never heard a voice so cruel and cold
and ugly as that blind man's. Cowed me more than the pain, I began to obey him at once,
walking straight in at the door and towards the parlour, where our sick old buccaneer was sitting,
dazed with rum. The blind man clung close to me, holding me in one iron fist, and leaning almost
more of his weight on me than I could carry. Lead me straight up to him, and when I'm in view,
cry out. Here's a friend for you, Bill. If you don't, I'll do this. And with that he gave me a
twitch that I thought would have made me faint. Between this and that I was so utterly terrified
of the blind beggar that I forgot my terror of the captain, and as I opened the parlour door,
cried out the words he had ordered in a trembling voice.
The poor captain raised his eyes, and at one look the rum went out of him and left him staring
sober. The expression of his face was not so much of terror as of mortal sickness.
He made a movement to rise, but I do not believe he had enough force left in his body.
Now, Bill, sit where you are, said the beggar. If I can't see, I can hear a finger steering.
Business is business. Hold out your left hand. Boy, take his left hand by the wrist,
and bring it near to my right. We both obeyed him to the letter, and I saw him pass something
from the hollow of the hand that held his stick into the palm of the captain's,
which closed upon it instantly.
And now that's done, said the blind man, and at the words he suddenly left hold of me,
and with incredible accuracy and nimbleness, skipped out of the parlour and into the road,
where, as I still stood motionless, I could hear his stick go tap, tap, tapping into the distance.
It was some time before either I or the captain seemed to gather our senses,
but at length, and about at the same moment, I released his wrist, which I was still holding,
and he drew in his hand and looked sharply into the palm.
Ten o'clock, he cried. Six hours. We'll do them yet. And he sprang to his feet.
Even as he did so, he reeled, put his hand to his throat, stood swaying for a moment,
and then, with a peculiar sound, fell from his whole height face foremost to the floor.
I ran to him at once, calling to my mother, but haste was all in vain.
The captain had been struck dead by thundering apoplexy.
It is a curious thing to understand, for I had certainly never liked the man,
though of late I had begun to pity him, but as soon as I saw that he was dead,
I burst into a flood of tears. It was the second death I had known,
and the sorrow of the first was still fresh in my heart.
Chapter 4 The Sea Chest
I lost no time, of course, in telling my mother all that I knew,
and perhaps should have told her long before, and we saw ourselves at once in a difficult
and dangerous position. Some of the man's money, if he had any, was certainly due to us,
but it was not likely that our captain's shipmates, above all the two specimens seen by me,
Black Dog and the Blind Beggar, would be inclined to give up their booty in payment of the dead
man's debts. The captain's order to mount at once and ride for Dr. Livesey would have left my mother
alone and unprotected, which was not to be thought of. Indeed, it seemed impossible for either of us
to remain much longer in the house. The fall of coals in the kitchen grate, the very ticking of
the clock filled us with alarms. The neighbourhood, to our ears, seemed haunted by approaching
footsteps, and what between the dead body of the captain on the parlour floor and the thought of
that detestable Blind Beggar hovering near at hand and ready to return, there were moments when,
as the saying goes, I jumped in my skin for terror. Something must speedily be resolved upon,
and it occurred to us at last to go forth together and seek help in the neighbouring hamlet,
no sooner said than done. Bareheaded as we were, we ran out at once in the gathering evening
and the frosty fog. The hamlet lay not many hundred yards away, though out of view,
on the other side of the next cove, and what greatly encouraged me, it was in an opposite
direction from that whence the blind man had made his appearance and whither he had presumably
returned. We were not many minutes on the road, though we sometimes stopped to lay hold of each
other and hearken, but there was no unusual sound, nothing but the low wash of the ripple
and the croaking of the inmates of the woods. It was already candlelight when we reached the hamlet,
and I shall never forget how much I was cheered to see the yellow shine in doors and windows,
but that, as it proved, was the best of the help we were likely to get in that quarter,
for you would have thought men have been ashamed of themselves. No soul would consent to return
with us to the Admiral Benbow. The more we told of our troubles, the more man, woman and child
they clung to the shelter of their houses. The name of Captain Flint, though it was strange to me,
was well enough known to some there and carried a great weight of terror.
Some of the men who had been to field work on the far side of the Admiral Benbow remembered,
besides, to have seen several strangers on the road, and taking them to be smugglers,
to have bolted away, and one at least had seen a little lugger in what we called Kitt's Hole.
For that matter, anyone who was a comrade of the captain's was enough to frighten them to death,
and the short and the long of the matter was that while we could get several who were willing enough
to ride to Dr. Livesey's, which lay in another direction, not one would help us to defend the inn.
They say cowardice is infectious, but then argument is, on the other hand, a great emboldener,
and so when each had said his say, my mother made them a speech.
She would not, she declared, lose money that belonged to her fatherless boy.
If none of the rest of you dare, she said, Jim and I dare. Back we will go, the way we came,
and small thanks to you big hulking chicken-hearted men. We'll have that chest open
if we die for it, and I'll thank you for that bag, Mrs. Crusley, to bring back our lawful money in.
Of course I said I would go with my mother, and of course they all cried out at our foolhardiness,
but even then not a man would go along with us. All they would do was to give me a loaded pistol
lest we were attacked, and to promise to have our horses ready saddled in case we were pursued on
our return, while one lad was to ride forward to the doctors in search of armed assistance.
My heart was beating finally when we too set forth in the cold night upon this dangerous venture.
A full moon was beginning to rise and peered readily through the upper edges of the fog,
and this increased our haste, for it was plain, before we came forth again,
that all would be as bright as day, and our departure exposed to the eyes of any watchers.
We slipped along the hedges, noiseless and swift, nor did we see or hear anything to increase our
terrors, till, to our relief, the door of the Admiral Benbow had closed behind us.
I slipped the bolt at once, and we stood and panted for a moment in the dark, alone in the
house with the dead captain's body. Then my mother got a candle in the bar, and holding each other's
hands, we advanced into the parlour. He lay as we had left him, on his back, with his eyes open
and one arm stretched out.
"'Draw down the blind, Jim,' whispered my mother.
"'They might come and watch outside.'
"'And now,' said she, when I had done so,
"'we have to get the key off that. And who's to touch it, I should like to know.'
And she gave a kind of sob as she said the words.
I went down on my knees at once. On the floor,
close to his hand, there was a little round of paper, blackened on the one side. I could not
doubt that this was the black spot, and taking it up, I found written on the other side,
in a very good, clear hand, this short message.
"'You have till ten to-night.'
"'He had till ten, mother,' said I, and just as I said it,
our old clock began striking. This sudden noise startled us shockingly,
but the news was good, for it was only six.
"'Now, Jim,' she said,
"'that key.'
I felt in his pockets, one after another, a few small coins, a thimble, and some thread and big
needles, a piece of pigtail tobacco bitten away at the end. His gully with the crooked handle,
pocket compass, and a tinder box were all that they contained, and I began to despair.
"'Perhaps it's round his neck,' suggested my mother.
Overcoming a strong repugnance, I tore open his shirt at the neck, and there, sure enough,
hanging to a bit of tarry string, which I cut with his own gully, we found the key.
At this triumph we were filled with hope, and hurried upstairs without delay
to the little room where he had slept so long, and where his box had stood since the day of his
arrival. It was like any other seaman's chest on the outside. The initial B burned on the top of it,
with a hot iron, and the corner somewhat smashed and broken as by long, rough usage.
"'Give me the key,' said my mother. And though the lock was very stiff,
she had turned it and thrown back the lid in a twinkling.
A strong smell of tobacco and tar rose from the interior, but nothing was to be seen on the top
except a suit of very good clothes, carefully brushed and folded. They had never been worn,'
my mother said. Under that the miscellany began. A quadrant, a tin canikin, several sticks of
tobacco, two brace of very handsome pistols, a piece of bar silver, an old Spanish watch,
and some other trinkets of little value and mostly of foreign make, a pair of compasses
mounted with brass, and five or six curious West Indian shells. I have often wondered since
why he should have carried about these shells with him in his wandering, guilty, and hunted life.
In the meantime, we had found nothing of any value but the silver and the trinkets,
and neither of these were in our way. Underneath there was an old boat cloak,
whitened with sea salt on many a harbour bar. My mother pulled it up with impatience, and there
lay before us the last things in the chest, a bundle tied up in oilcloth and looking like papers,
and a canvas bag that gave forth at a touch the jingle of gold.
I'll show these rogues that I'm an honest woman, said my mother. I'll have my dues,
and not a firething over. Hold Mr. Crossley's bag. And she began to count over the amount
of the captain's score from the sailor's bag into the one that I was holding.
It was a long, difficult business, for the coins were of all countries and sizes,
doubloons and louis d'ores and guineas and pieces of eight, and I know not what besides,
all shaken together at random. The guineas, too, were about the scarcest, and it was with
these only that my mother knew how to make her count. When we were about halfway through,
I suddenly put my hand upon her arm, for I had heard in the silent frosty air a sound
that brought my heart into my mouth, the tap, tap, tapping of the blind man's stick
upon the frozen road. It drew nearer and nearer while we sat holding our breath.
Then it struck sharp on the inn door, and then we could hear the handle being turned and the bolt
rattling as the wretched being tried to enter, and then there was a long time of silence,
both within and without. At last the tapping recommenced, and to our indescribable joy and
gratitude died slowly away again until it ceased to be heard.
"'Mother,' said I, "'take the hole and let's be going,' for I was sure the bolted door must
have seemed suspicious and would bring the whole hornet's nest about our ears,
though how thankful I was that I had bolted it. None could tell who had never met that terrible
blind man. But my mother, frightened as she was, would not consent to take a fraction more than was
due to her, and was obstinately unwilling to be content with less. It was not yet seven, she said,
by a long way. She knew her rights and she would have them, and she was still arguing with me
when a little low whistle sounded a good way off upon the hill. That was enough, and more than
enough for both of us. "'I'll take what I have,' she said, jumping to her feet.
"'And I'll take this to square the count,' said I, picking up the oil-skin packet.
Next moment we were both groping downstairs, leaving the candle by the empty chest.
And the next we had opened the door and were in full retreat. We had not started a moment too soon.
The fog was rapidly dispersing. Already the moon shone quite clear on the high ground on either side,
and it was only in the exact bottom of the dell and round the tavern door that a thin
veil still hung unbroken to conceal the first steps of our escape. Far less than halfway to
the hamlet, very little beyond the bottom of the hill, we must come forth into the moonlight.
Nor was this all, for the sound of several footsteps running came already to our ears,
and as we looked back in their direction a light,
tossing to and fro and still rapidly advancing, showed that one of the newcomers carried a lantern.
"'My dear,' said my mother suddenly,
"'take the money and run on. I'm going to faint.' This was certainly the end for both of us,
I thought. How I cursed the cowardice of the neighbours! How I blamed my poor mother for her
honesty and her greed, for her past foolhardiness and present weakness! We were just at the little
bridge by good fortune, and I helped her, tottering as she was, to the edge of the bank,
where, sure enough, she gave a sigh and fell on my shoulder. I do not know how I found the strength
to do it at all, and I'm afraid it was roughly done, but I managed to drag her down the bank
and a little way under the arch. Farther I could not move her, for the bridge was too low to let
me do more than crawl below it. So there we had to stay, my mother almost entirely exposed,
and both of us within earshot of the inn."
End of chapter 4